Exercitii facute: 1, 2, 3
Copyright, Negoita Anca-Elena, 331 CA, 2023-2024

Switch
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In this project, the logic of a switch is implemented using Python in order to have the
STP identify the correct path without cycles, and of the least expensive cost(the path
from one switch to another), and send packages forward from one host to another, of the
same VLAN.

1. Linking
The switch knows where the packet came from and what data it contains. It insert in the CAM
table the MAC source and the port if no information existed before about that source.
There are 2 situations:
- the path is known to the destination, in which the switch sends directly the packet to 
the known port that is found in its CAM table.
- the path is not known, in which the switch sends the packet to all ports without the
one the packet came from (floods the system) in order to find the destination. All connected
switches will upgrade their CAM table with the MAC of the source, associated with the port the
packet came from

2. VLAN
Each host has a different local address, represented by its VLAN. 2 hosts can communicate if
they both are in the same local address. If not, the packet is dropped, and the sender won't
receive information about the delivery. In order to verify the VLAN, a tag is inserted in the
header(packet) that can pe identified by the prefix 0x8100, that stores the VLAN of the sender.
When the packet is received from a host, the switch inserts the tag after the source MAC and
forwards the packet. In the system, the chain between switches are trunk, so they can receive 
packages from each VLAN. Knowing that, the tag can remain until the end. When sending the packet to
a host, it is verified if it has the same VLAN as the sender, and if positive, the tag is removed
and the original packet is sent. The linking process wprks the same as before.

3. STP
In the network system, the switches can create cycles or have a lot more connections that, in the 
end, become useless. If a cycle is found, the way the switch received the packet is blocked. Some 
ports need to be blocked in order for packets not to go through that connection and have an
unique path from one another. 
A struct is used to simplify the process:
class BPDUConfig:
- root_bridge_id - the priority of the route bridge from the network system
- root_path_cost - the cost from the current switch to the root bridge
- bridge_id - the current switch's priority

The packet sent from a switch is of type BPDU, and is made of the destination MAC, which is the
multicast address 01:80:C2:00:00:00, and each field from the struct converted to bytes and
concatenated. If the packet received has that MAC, it is known that it came from the STP and
then the informations need to be verified. First, the current switch believes he is the root bridge
and sends packets to other switched to inform about this. When receiving a packet from STP, it
extracts the BPDU header.
- If the priority of the root bridge found by the sender is lesser than what the switch had 
stored, then another switch is the root bridge and the switch needs to inform its neighbours.
If the current switch thought before it was the root bridge, then it turns all the ports to
BLOCKING(0) without the one the packet came from because is the connection to the root bridge.
The path cost is upgraded by adding 10
- If the priority of the sender's' root bridge is the same as what the current switch had stored,
it verifies if the port was already LISTENING(1) and the new cost is lesser than what the 
switch already knew. Else, if the current path is better than the one from the sender, it
switches the port to listening(the path is through the current switch)
- If the initial sent packet returns to the current switch, a cycle was found and the port it
came from becomes BLOCKING
In the end, if the current switch is still the root bridge, it converts all of its ports to
LISTENING(final verification to see that all is set)

In the code mentioned before, the only modification made is for the switches to verify if a port 
is opened for sending packets or not.
